The next topic we're gonna
cover is Nullish values.
These are dealing with values that
might be empty or not yet populated.
We talked a little bit
about null undefined and
void in terms of them being unit types.
But let's talk about when it's appropriate
to use undefined versus nuul and
then we're going to get into a couple
of topics here dealing with,
how do you work with Nullish values?
How do you safely do
that,TypeScript provides us
with a couple different
things,several operators here.
All four of these are TypeScript
features that have a particular
syntax that you can use,
that relates to handling Nullish values.
So first let's look at null.
So null differs from
undefined in that null is
something that has to be explicitly set.
So I tend to use null to
mean that nothing is here.
Like somebody has filled in this field and
the field contains nothing null.
It is distinguishable from undefined.
Undefined, it indicates that something may
not have ever been set in the first place.
So, where are we gonna see undefined?
Well, anytime you have an optional
property, right, on a, gosh,
I don't even wanna say object type now,
but on an interface, I can say that.
Date has the possibility, or so completed
at has the possibility of being a date or
being undefined.
And you can see here, if we're saying,
all right, I've got a form in
progress interface, I have a value
that describes this form in progress.
And I want to then pass it into this,
I wanna use it to submit this form.
Sorry, let me get the tool tip here,
it's lagging a little bit.
Come on, give me completed at.
So that is new date but
if we look at the type here,
it's still type form in progress.
This is gonna indicate
that it's undefined,
cuz that's how we've ended up with this.
It's really coming from this
type annotation here, right.
It's gonna say, the value you gave me
certainly meets this interface and
if you want to regard it
as this type of course.
Sorry, I'm getting a little confused here,
completedAt versus createdAt.
We could put a completed at here just for
fun, I think the example still works.
Yep, it does still work.
So, yeah,
we happen to be providing it in this case.
We have both dates but here, if we're
saying my date equals form in progress,
whose type is the interface above, right?
It's the interface on
line 11 which represents
that completedAt may not be there.
If we try to go ahead and grab it,
it has the possibility of being undefined.
So this is an interesting thing here.
TypeScript has a new feature that
we'll learn more about later called,
it's a satisfies keyword which would
make this a little bit neater.
It would allow us to say yes we have
a form in progres, okay because onto that.
But can you go ahead and
keep the most specific type you can so
that we don't lose
the fact that completedAt.
Is actually present it is present
on this particular variable.
So we'll learn more about that later.
That's undefined void.
We talked about void just now.
It means, a function functions
return value should be uninteresting
console.log is an example,
don't listen to what console.log returns.
All right, let's get into how we
work with these Nullish values.
The first of these operators
we're gonna describe is
the non-null assertion operator.
So here we have a GroceryCart.
This fruits and vegetables, property,
they both may not be present, right.
So we're gonna create
a cart called grocery cart.
It happens to not have either
of those two fields on it.
And we can see that if we just
try to go like cart.fruits.push,
we're alerted to the possibility that
cart.fruits is possibly undefined.
Adding this exclamation mark right here,
that is the non null assertion operator.
What this means is plow straight through.
Does that sound safe?
>> It could possibly go wrong.
>> What could possibly go
wrong seems like a great idea.
It's not, it's not safe.
It's not to say that this is useless,
but this will error.
This will error, fruits is in fact
not there, so this will throw.
Now, where might this be useful?
Well, I use this all the time in tests,
why?
I want things to throw, if they
deviate from my expectations in tests.
It's perfectly fine for them to throw,
that is a test failure.
So it's a little bit like
an assertion in a test.
It works beautifully in
tests libraries like MOCA,
for example, where thrown errors
are what happens when assertions fail.
So if you have other thrown errors that
are part of your test It'll be caught
just like an assertion failure and in
most cases it'll be surfaced very nicely.
There are test frameworks that
don't behave that way, but
I prefer I like when throws.
Even if they're not part of a direct
assertion, it's just like this function
was not happy and it threw, I like that
to be handled in a very visible way.
Yes, sir.
>> Is that similar to that annotation you
had already told TypeScript to ignore
the next line, or
is it more specific to just that one?
>> Very good question,
yeah, we could do this.
I could do that, so
let's try that instead.
Actually, I'm gonna leave this example,
let's try it up here.
So it would make that error go away,
but what about this
Oops, I'm lagging a little bit here.
Should this work?
There's a difference between turning
TypeScript off and saying specifically,
please just ignore the possibility
that this one thing might be null.
So that's part of the value here,
you don't want to sort of say TypeScript
literally get out of my way on this next
slide like don't do any type checking,
don't error I don't care what it is.
Versus this is a much more precise way
of saying just that I want you to ignore
something very specific and it's the
possibility that this one thing is null.
And if you had,
let's say cart could have been undefined,
you'd have to add a bang, an exclamation
mark, every step of the way that you
wanna plow through a specific
possibility that something is undefined.
So if it were a chain, sometimes you
have a big nested JSON object, and
it could be a bunch of things,
and if you just wanna sort of plow
straight through into a particular path.
You'd need a lot of exclamation
marks in order to do that, but
that would be perfectly fine in a test,
right?
Where you get the result of a function and
you want to know, did some,
grandchild object have a particular
field on it with a value you could just
push straight through.
And if anything throws that's
an assertion failure, that's great.
But I tend to not want to
use this in library code or
an application code
because it's dangerous.
I'm about to talk about one place
I will use something very similar.
It's similar in nature, it's kind of
the same syntax, also an exclamation mark.
But we'll get to that immediately,
let me just get this back to where it was,
all right.